Despite the increase in funding for scholarships
the number of scholarships in Slovenia in 1963 fell considerably.
Yet young people show a great desire for higher education
Many are trying to find the financial resources to live while also studying.
For the fifth year running Maks Tankijevic has been supplying milk every day to the residential areas in Vic
all the way from Gradascica to the railway tracks.
He starts at four and by seven o'clock…
the boy with no scholarship has already delivered around 300 bottles of milk.
Three dinars per bottle is the retainer for the company’s best milkman.
Maks also regularly sits his exams.
He is studying economic policy at the Faculty of Law.
He will surely become a good manager of an economic organisation
as he already knows too well what every cent means.
There are over 60 milk delivery boys in Ljubljana, and they are known for being hardworking and conscientious.
There are also other occupations that engage our young undergraduates.
The Institute of Statistics employs 15 young people…
…but during larger scale censuses this rises to over 150 male and female students.
It is hard to find occupations where young people don’t work.
Tone, who studies in the Electro-technical faculty, works at Ljubljana radio and television.
He controls USW transmitters and television links.
Although most students work…
…only a few are fortunate enough to find a job in the industry that may become their profession.
In Ljubljana’s Tehnograd there are fourteen part-time students employed
They work as contractors and architects and there is nothing but praise for them.
…but there is no greater satisfaction for the young designer than facing tomorrow's challenge…
…even when given the most difficult tasks by the professors.
At the excavation on Gregorčičeva Street which is unearthing a row of Roman houses…
…trainee historian Janez and trainee archaeologist Silvin have uncovered many interesting things.
They are gradually revealing the secrets of their future professions.
Of course there are hours of free time sacrificed for learning…
…but without the occasional job and experience students cannot attain their goals.
The aim of higher education is still not a possibility for all
Particularly for those who are not among the lucky four thousand students…
…who receive a scholarship and are awarded half a billion dinars by our society every month.